depositor-guide/02-ingest.rst, before:

Creating Objects
=================

This chapter covers how to create an object in the Repository. It goes on to describe how
to add assets (i.e. files, e.g., images, videos, PDF)  to the created objects.

Creating a collection
----------------------

The Repository web UI provides two options for creating objects, form entry and XML upload.
In order to use either of these options a collection must exist for the object to be added to.

The ability to create a collection will depend on your level of permissions within the Repository.
If you have the required permissions then in the main navigation you will be able to see the 
'Manage' menu and within this the 'New Collection' option. 

.. figure:: images/new_collection.png
   :alt: New collection menu option

   New collection menu option

If this is not available then it will be necessary for a collection to be created for you and 
that you are granted the correct permissions within this collection to create objects. You should contact 
your Organisation Manager to carry out these tasks on your behalf.

.. figure:: images/collection_form.png
   :alt: Form to create a new collection

   New collection form

Clicking the 'New Collection' menu item (if available) will bring you to the web form for 
collection creation. This form allows you to enter the metadata to describe the new collection.
The form requires that a minimum set of metadata fields are entered before the collection
can be created. You can also choose a licence (1) to apply to the objects within the collection and set 
the required access controls (2). Before you can submit the form you must check the box (3) to indicate
that you agree to the terms of the deposit agreement. 

.. figure:: images/submit_collection_form.png
   :alt: Collection form submission

   Submitting the collection form

Adding objects
---------------

Adding objects to an existing collection is done from the display page for that collection. You can navigate to 
the collection through the Discover tab, as described above.

On the right hand side of the collection display page you should see the editor tools menu (1). There are
two options for adding objects: Add an Object (2), and Upload Object XML (3). If you have an existing
XML metadata file in one of the supported standards then the fastest option is to choose to upload this
to the Repository. If not you can create the object's metadata using the object creation form.

.. figure:: images/editor_tools.png
   :alt: Collection editor tools

   Collection editor tools

The form for creating an object is very similar to that described for creating a collection. You can
get more information on the fields and how they should be completed in 
`DRI's metadata guidelines <http://dri.ie/sites/default/files/files/dri-dublin-core-metadata-guidelines-V2.pdf>`_.

Choosing to upload XML will direct you to the file upload page (1). Clicking on the 'Upload Metadata file' (2) box will open
a file chooser dialog from which you can pick the XML file to upload. Once a file has been selected, pressing
continue will upload the file and create the object. If successful you will be redirected to the new object's
display page.

.. figure:: images/upload-xml.png
   :alt: Upload XML metadata

   Upload XML metadata

Adding assets
--------------

Assets refer to the files that an object's metadata describes, such as image, audio, or video files. From the object's
display page you will have access to the object tools menu. Selecting 'Upload Asset' (1) will open a file chooser from
which you can select the asset to upload. 

.. figure:: images/upload-asset.png
   :alt: Upload asset

   Upload asset

Once selected you should now see an 'upload' (1) button to the right of the menu
option. Pressing this will upload the asset and attach it to the object.

.. figure:: images/upload-asset-button.png
   :alt: Upload asset button

   Upload asset button

Once uploaded a message indicating if the upload was successful will be displayed. The Repository will now process
the uploaded asset for display. For example, in the case of an image, a thumbnail and several other 
surrogates of various sizes will be created. Until these background processes are completed a temporary message
will be shown in the asset display. To check on the progress of these jobs you can select Asset Details (1) in the 
Asset Tools menu (2). You can also delete the asset from this menu (3).

.. figure:: images/asset-tools.png
   :alt: Asset tools menu

   Asset tools menu

In the asset details page you can view the metadata automatically extracted from the uploaded asset (1). You can also
see the progress and status of the background processes (2). This will show if the task has succeeded or in the case
of a failure will show the error. You can also choose to replace the asset with a different file (3).

.. figure:: images/asset-details.png
   :alt: Asset details

   Asset details

Commit message:

Update new collection instructions and images

depositor-guide/02-ingest.rst, after:

Creating Objects
=================

This chapter covers how to create an object in the Repository. It goes on to describe how
to add assets (i.e. files, e.g., images, videos, PDF)  to the created objects.

Creating a collection
----------------------

The Repository web UI provides two options for creating objects, form entry and XML upload.
In order to use either of these options a collection must exist for the object to be added to.

The ability to create a collection will depend on your level of permissions within the Repository.
If you have the required permissions then in your workspace (1) in the Manage section you will be able to see
the 'New Collection' (2)  option. 

.. figure:: images/new_collection.png
   :alt: New collection menu option

   New collection menu option

If this is not available then it will be necessary for a collection to be created for you and 
that you are granted the correct permissions within this collection to create objects. You should contact 
your Organisation Manager to carry out these tasks on your behalf.

.. figure:: images/collection_form.png
   :alt: Form to create a new collection

   New collection form

Clicking the 'New Collection' menu item (if available) will bring you to the web form for 
collection creation. This form allows you to enter the metadata to describe the new collection.
The form requires that a minimum set of metadata fields are entered before the collection
can be created. You can also choose a licence (1) to apply to the objects within the collection and set 
the required access controls (2). Before you can submit the form you must check the box (3) to indicate
that you agree to the terms of the deposit agreement. 

.. figure:: images/submit_collection_form.png
   :alt: Collection form submission

   Submitting the collection form

Adding objects
---------------

Adding objects to an existing collection is done from the display page for that collection. You can navigate to 
the collection through the 'My Collections' link found in your workspace.

.. figure:: images/my_collections.png
      :alt: My Collections link

   My Collections workspace link

On the right hand side of the collection display page you should see the editor tools menu (1). There are
two options for adding objects: Add an Object (2), and Upload Object XML (3). If you have an existing
XML metadata file in one of the supported standards then the fastest option is to choose to upload this
to the Repository. If not you can create the object's metadata using the object creation form.

.. figure:: images/editor_tools.png
   :alt: Collection editor tools

   Collection editor tools

The form for creating an object is very similar to that described for creating a collection. You can
get more information on the fields and how they should be completed in 
`DRI's metadata guidelines <http://dri.ie/sites/default/files/files/dri-dublin-core-metadata-guidelines-V2.pdf>`_.

Choosing to upload XML will direct you to the file upload page (1). Clicking on the 'Upload Metadata file' (2) box will open
a file chooser dialog from which you can pick the XML file to upload. Once a file has been selected, pressing
continue will upload the file and create the object. If successful you will be redirected to the new object's
display page.

.. figure:: images/upload-xml.png
   :alt: Upload XML metadata

   Upload XML metadata

Adding assets
--------------

Assets refer to the files that an object's metadata describes, such as image, audio, or video files. From the object's
display page you will have access to the object tools menu. Selecting 'Upload Asset' (1) will open a file chooser from
which you can select the asset to upload. 

.. figure:: images/upload-asset.png
   :alt: Upload asset

   Upload asset

Once selected you should now see an 'upload' (1) button to the right of the menu
option. Pressing this will upload the asset and attach it to the object.

.. figure:: images/upload-asset-button.png
   :alt: Upload asset button

   Upload asset button

Once uploaded a message indicating if the upload was successful will be displayed. The Repository will now process
the uploaded asset for display. For example, in the case of an image, a thumbnail and several other 
surrogates of various sizes will be created. Until these background processes are completed a temporary message
will be shown in the asset display. To check on the progress of these jobs you can select Asset Details (1) in the 
Asset Tools menu (2). You can also delete the asset from this menu (3).

.. figure:: images/asset-tools.png
   :alt: Asset tools menu

   Asset tools menu

In the asset details page you can view the metadata automatically extracted from the uploaded asset (1). You can also
see the progress and status of the background processes (2). This will show if the task has succeeded or in the case
of a failure will show the error. You can also choose to replace the asset with a different file (3).

.. figure:: images/asset-details.png
   :alt: Asset details

   Asset details
